# GapPlotter
GapPlotter is a Python package for analyzing and visualizing gaps in DNA sequence alignments stored in BAM format. It provides two scripts:

1. `gapplotter_generate_csv.py`: This script generates a CSV file containing information about gaps in a BAM file. It identifies regions of the reference genome that are not covered by any read and records them as gaps, including their start and end positions.

2. `gapplotter_generate_histogram.py`: This script generates a histogram image of gap lengths from a CSV file generated by GapPlotter. It plots the distribution of gap lengths, allowing users to visualize the frequency and distribution of gaps in the alignment data.

GapPlotter is useful for researchers working with DNA sequence data who need to analyze and visualize regions of the genome that are not covered by reads, such as gaps in sequence coverage or alignment errors.

## Features
- Generate CSV files of gap information from BAM files
- Visualize gap lengths using histogram plots
- Command-line interface for easy usage
- Compatible with Python 3.x

## Installation
To install GapPlotter, simply clone the repository and install dependencies.

Installation Instructions
1. Clone the Repository
Clone the GapPlotter repository to your local machine using the following command:

```git clone https://github.com/Wizical/GapPlotter.git```

2. Install Dependencies
Navigate to the cloned repository directory and install the required dependencies using pip

## Usage
Generating CSV File of Gaps
To generate a CSV file containing information about gaps in a BAM file, use the following command:

```python gapplotter_generate_csv.py -i input.bam -o output.csv```

Replace input.bam with the path to your BAM file and output.csv with the desired path and filename for the CSV file.

Generating Histogram Image
To generate a histogram image of gap lengths from a CSV file generated by GapPlotter, use the following command:

```python gapplotter_generate_histogram.py -i input.csv -o output.png```

Replace input.csv with the path to the CSV file containing gap information and output.png with the desired path and filename for the PNG image of the histogram.
